# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`spamassassin`](#spamassassin): == Class: spamassassin  This module installs and configures spamassassin and a few of it's plugins.  === Parameters  [*sa_update*] Boolean. E
* [`spamassassin::config`](#spamassassin--config): == Class: spamassassin::config  Configure spamassassin and related software.  This class should not be used directly. Use the spamassassin cl
* [`spamassassin::install`](#spamassassin--install): == Class: spamassassin::install  Install packages for spamassassin and related software.  This class should not be used directly. Use the spa
* [`spamassassin::params`](#spamassassin--params): == Class: spamassassin::params  Default parameter values for class spamassassin  TODO: This should be replaced by data-in-module with hiera 5
* [`spamassassin::service`](#spamassassin--service): == Class: spamassassin::service  Setup spamassassin service.  This class should not be used directly. Use the spamassassin class and its para

## Classes

### <a name="spamassassin"></a>`spamassassin`

== Class: spamassassin

This module installs and configures spamassassin
and a few of it's plugins.

=== Parameters

[*sa_update*]
Boolean. Enable the sa-update cron job.
Default: false

[*run_execs_as_user*]
If you enabled razor and/or pyzor and would
like the razor-admin or pyzor discover commands
to be run as a different user specify the username
in this directive. Example: amavis. Default: undef

[*package_name*]
String. The package name to use.
Default: Distribution specific

[*service_enabled*]
Boolean. Will enable service at boot
and ensure a running service.

[*service_name*]
String. The service name to use for the spamassassin service.
Default: Distribution specific

[*notify_service_name*]
String. If specified then this service will be notified instead of "spamd"
when config is update. Only has an effect if service_enabled is false.

[*spamd_max_children*]
This option specifies the maximum number of children to spawn.
Spamd will spawn that number of children, then sleep in the background
until a child dies, wherein it will go and spawn a new child.

[*spamd_min_children*]
The minimum number of children that will be kept running
The minimum value is 1, the default value is 1 in spamd, and undef here.
If you have lots of free RAM, you may want to increase this.

[*spamd_listen_address*]
List of IP addresses spamd will listen to (defaults to "localhost",
which will listen both on IPv4 and IPv6 locally). Use 0.0.0.0 to listen on
all interfaces. You can also use a valid hostname which will make spamd
listen on the first address that name resolves to. To listen only to an IPv6
address, make sure to encase the address within square brackets (i.e.
"[fe80::fc54:ff:fe8f:4b36]")

[*spamd_allowed_ips*]
Specify a list of authorized hosts or networks which can connect to this
spamd instance. Values can be single IP addresses or CIDR format networks.
Hostnames are not supported, only IP addresses. Similarly to
spamd_listen_address, to specify IPs or CIDR notation for IPV6, make sure to
encase the address or network part in square brackets)

[*spamd_username*]
spamd runs as this user

[*spamd_groupname*]
spamd runs in this group

[*spamd_nouserconfig*]
Turn off (on) reading of per-user configuration files (user_prefs) from
the user's home directory. The default behaviour is to read per-user
configuration from the user's home directory (--user-config).

[*spamd_allowtell*]
Allow learning and forgetting (to a local Bayes database), reporting and
revoking (to a remote database) by spamd. The client issues a TELL command
to tell what type of message is being processed and whether local (learn/forget)
or remote (report/revoke) databases should be updated.

[*spamd_sql_config*]
Turn on SQL lookups even when per-user config files have been disabled with -x
this is useful for spamd hosts which dont have users home directories
but do want to load user preferences from an SQL database.

[*spamd_syslog_facility*]
Turn this on to deposit logs for SpamAssassin and define the log location.
e.g. /var/log/spamd.log

[*configdir*]
Absolute path to the directory containing spamassassin's configuration files.

[*spamd_options_file*]
Absolute path to the file containing global options to spamd.

[*spamd_options_var*]
Name of the shell variable used for storing spamd options in
spamd_options_file.

[*spamd_defaults*]
String of spamd option flags set in spamd_options_file.

[*sa_update_file*]
Absolute path to file that contains shell variables for sa-update.

[*required_score*]
Set the score required before a mail is considered spam. n.nn can be an
integer or a real number.

[*score_tests*]
Assign scores (the number of points for a hit) to a given test.
Scores can be positive or negative real numbers or integers.

[*custom_rules*]
Define custom rules. This is a hash of hashes. The key for the outer hash is the
spamassassin rule name, the inner hash for each entry should contain the rule definition, e.g:

spamassassin::custom_rules:
  INVOICE_SPAM:
    body: '/Invoice.*from.*You have received an invoice from .* To start with it, print out or download a JS copy of your invoice/'
    score: 6
    describe: 'spam reported claiming "You have received an invoice"'

[*custom_config*]
Add custom lines to the config file. Useful for configuring modules that aren't otherwise
handled by this Puppet module. This is an array of strings, e.g:

spamassassin::custom_config:
  - hashcash_accept *@example.com
  - hashcash_accept *@example.net

[*whitelist_from*]
Used to whitelist sender addresses which send mail that is often
tagged (incorrectly) as spam. This would be written to the global
local.cf file

[*whitelist_from_rcvd*]
Used to whitelist the combination of a sender address and rDNS name/IP.
This would be written to the global local.cf file

[*whitelist_to*]
If the given address appears as a recipient in the message headers
(Resent-To, To, Cc, obvious envelope recipient, etc.) the mail will
be whitelisted.

[*blacklist_from*]
Used to specify addresses which send mail that is often
tagged (incorrectly) as non-spam, but which the user doesn't want.

[*blacklist_to*]
If the given address appears as a recipient in the message headers
(Resent-To, To, Cc, obvious envelope recipient, etc.) the mail will
be blacklisted.

[*rewrite_header_subject*]
By default, suspected spam messages will not have the Subject, From
or To lines tagged to indicate spam. By setting this option, the header
will be tagged with the value of the parameter to indicate that a message
is spam.

[*rewrite_header_from*]
See rewrite_header_subject.

[*rewrite_header_to*]
See rewrite_header_subject.

[*add_header_spam*]
Customise headers to be added to spam emails. Each array item should contain: header_name string.

[*add_header_ham*]
See add_header_spam.

[*add_header_all*]
See add_header_spam.

[*remove_header_spam*]
Remove headers from spam emails. Each array item should be a header_name to remove.

[*remove_header_ham*]
See remove_header_spam.

[*remove_header_all*]
See remove_header_spam.

[*report_safe*]
Values: 0,1 or 2.
See: http://spamassassin.apache.org/full/3.3.x/doc/Mail_SpamAssassin_Conf.html#report_safe
Default: 0

[*clear_trusted_networks*]
Boolean. Empty the list of trusted networks. Default: false

[*trusted_networks*]
What networks or hosts are 'trusted' in your setup. Trusted in this case means
that relay hosts on these networks are considered to not be potentially operated
by spammers, open relays, or open proxies.

[*clear_internal_networks*]
Boolean. Empty the list of internal networks. Default: false

[*internal_networks*]
Internal means that relay hosts on these networks are considered
to be MXes for your domain(s), or internal relays.

[*skip_rbl_checks*]
Boolean. If false SpamAssassin will run RBL checks. Default: true

[*dns_available*]
If set to 'test', SpamAssassin will query some default hosts on the
internet to attempt to check if DNS is working or not. Default: yes

[*uridnsbl_skip_domain*]
List of domains for which URIDNSBL tests should be skipped. This can be used
to reduce the volume of URIBDNSBL checks, for example by disabling checks for
known domains that get sent to very often.

[*uridnsbl*]
Specify a lookup. Each entry's key is the name of the rule to be used. The
value should be an array with two items. The first item is the dnsbl zone to
lookup IPs in, and the second item is the type of lookup to perform (TXT or
A). Note that you must also define a body-eval rule calling check_uridnsbl()
to use this.

[*urirhsbl*]
Specify a RHSBL-style domain lookup. Each entry's key is the name of the rule
to be used. The value should be an array with two items. The first item is
the dnsbl zone to lookup IPs in, and the second item is the type of lookup to
perform (TXT or A).

[*urirhssub*]
Specify a RHSBL-style domain lookup with a sub-test. Each entry's key is the
name of the rule to be used. The value should be an array with three items.
The first item is the dnsbl zone to lookup IPs in. The second item is the
type of lookup to perform (TXT or A). Finally, the third item is the sub-test
to run against the returned data.

[*bayes_enabled*]
Boolean. Whether to use the naive-Bayesian-style classifier built
into SpamAssassin. Default: true

[*bayes_use_hapaxes*]
Boolean. Should the Bayesian classifier use hapaxes (words/tokens that occur
only once) when classifying? This produces significantly better hit-rates,
but increases database size by about a factor of 8 to 10. Default: true

[*bayes_auto_learn*]
Boolean. Whether SpamAssassin should automatically feed high-scoring mails
into its learning systems. Default: true

[*bayes_ignore_header*]
See http://spamassassin.apache.org/full/3.3.x/doc/Mail_SpamAssassin_Conf.html#bayes_ignore_header

[*bayes_auto_expire*]
Boolean. If enabled, the Bayes system will try to automatically expire old
tokens from the database. Default: true

[*bayes_sql_enabled*]
Boolean. If true will write the SQL-related directives to local.cf.
Default: false

[*bayes_sql_dsn*]
This parameter gives the connect string used to connect to the SQL based
Bayes storage. By default will use the mysql driver and a database called
spamassassin. Please note the module does not manage any database settings
or the creation of the schema.

[*bayes_sql_username*]
The sql username used for the dsn provided above.

[*bayes_sql_password*]
The sql password used for the dsn provided above.

[*bayes_sql_override_username*]
If this options is set the BayesStore::SQL module will override the set
username with the value given. This could be useful for implementing global
or group bayes databases.

[*bayes_store_module*]
This parameter configures the module that spamassassin will use when
connecting to the Bayes SQL database. The default will work for most
database types, but selecting the module for a DBMS may result provide
performance improvements or additional features. Certain modules may
require the additional perl modules that are not installed by this Puppet
module.

[*bayes_path*]
This is the directory and filename for Bayes databases. Please note this
parameter is not used if bayes_sql_enabled is true.

[*bayes_file_mode*]
The permissions that spamassassin will set to the bayes file that it may
create.

[*bayes_auto_learn_threshold_nonspam*]
Score at which SA learns the message as ham.

[*bayes_auto_learn_threshold_spam*]
Score at which SA learns the message as spam.

[*user_scores_dsn*]
The perl DBI DSN string used to specify the SQL server holding user config
example: 'DBI:mysql:dbname:hostname

[*user_scores_sql_username*]
The SQL username to connect to the above server

[*user_scores_sql_password*]
The SQL password for the above user

[*user_scores_sql_custom_query*]
Custom SQL query to use for spamd user_prefs.

[*dcc_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the DCC plugin. Default: false

[*dcc_timeout*]
How many seconds you wait for DCC to complete,
before scanning continues without the DCC results. Default: 8

[*dcc_body_max*]
This option sets how often a message's body/fuz1/fuz2 checksum
must have been reported to the DCC server before SpamAssassin
will consider the DCC check as matched. As nearly all DCC clients
are auto-reporting these checksums, you should set this to a relatively
high value, e.g. 999999 (this is DCC's MANY count). Default: 999999

[*dcc_fuz1_max*]
See dcc_body_max. Default: 999999

[*dcc_fuz2_max*]
See dcc_body_max. Default: 999999

[*pyzor_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the Pyzor plugin. Default: true

[*pyzor_timeout*]
How many seconds you wait for Pyzor to complete, before scanning continues
without the Pyzor results. Default: 3.5

[*pyzor_max*]
This option sets how often a message's body checksum must have been reported
to the Pyzor server before SpamAssassin will consider the Pyzor check as matched.
Default: 5

[*pyzor_options*]
Specify additional options to the pyzor command. Please note that only characters
in the range [0-9A-Za-z ,._/-] are allowed for security reasons. Please note that
the module will automatically add the homedir options as part of the configuration.

[*pyzor_path*]
This option tells SpamAssassin specifically where to find the pyzor client instead
of relying on SpamAssassin to find it in the current PATH.

[*pyzor_home*]
Define the homedir for pyzor. Default is to use the [global config dir]/.pyzor

[*razor_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the Pyzor plugin. Default: true

[*razor_timeout*]
How many seconds you wait for Razor to complete before you go on without the results.
Default: 5

[*razor_home*]
Define the homedir for razor. Please note that if you set a custom path the module will
automatically use the directory in which you store your razor config as the home
directory for the module. Default is to use the [global config dir]/.razor

[*spamcop_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the Pyzor plugin. Default: false

[*spamcop_from_address*]
This address is used during manual reports to SpamCop as the From: address. You
can use your normal email address. If this is not set, a guess will be used as
the From: address in SpamCop reports.

[*spamcop_to_address*]
Your customized SpamCop report submission address. You need to obtain this address
by registering at http://www.spamcop.net/. If this is not set, SpamCop reports will
go to a generic reporting address for SpamAssassin users and your reports will probably
have less weight in the SpamCop system.

[*spamcop_max_report_size*]
Messages larger than this size (in kilobytes) will be truncated in report messages sent
to SpamCop. The default setting is the maximum size that SpamCop will accept at the time
of release. Default: 50

[*awl_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the Auto-Whitelist plugin. Default: false

[*awl_sql_enabled*]
Boolean. If true will set auto_whitelist_factory to use sql and will write the
sql dsn, and other directives, to local.cf. Default: false

[*awl_dsn*]
This parameter gives the connect string used to connect to the SQL based
storage. By default will use the mysql driver and a database called
spamassassin. Please note the module does not manage any database
settings or the creation of the schema.

[*awl_sql_username*]
The sql username used for the dsn provided above.

[*awl_sql_password*]
The sql password used for the dsn provided above.

[*awl_sql_override_username*]
Used by the SQLBasedAddrList storage implementation.  If this option is
set the SQLBasedAddrList module will override the set username with the
value given. This can be useful for implementing global or group based
auto-whitelist databases.

[*auto_whitelist_path*]
This is the automatic-whitelist directory and filename.
Default: ~/.spamassassin/auto-whitelist

[*auto_whitelist_file_mode*]
The file mode bits used for the automatic-whitelist directory or file.
Default: 0600

[*textcat_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the TextCat plugin. Default: false

[*ok_languages*]
List of languages which are considered okay for incoming mail. If unset,
defaults to accepting all languages.
Default: ['all']

[*ok_locales*]
List of charsets that are permitted. If unset, defaults to accepting all
locales.
Default: ['all']

[*normalize_charset*]
Boolean. Enable/disable scanning non-UTF8 or non-ASCII parts to guess charset.
Default: false

[*shortcircuit_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the Shortcircuit plugin. Default: false

[*shortcircuit_user_in_whitelist*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_user_in_def_whitelist*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_user_in_all_spam_to*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_subject_in_whitelist*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist_to*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_subject_in_blacklist*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*shortcircuit_all_trusted*]
Values: ham, spam, on or off.

[*dkim_enabled*]
Boolean. Enable/disable the DKIM plugin. Default: true

[*dkim_timeout*]
How many seconds to wait for a DKIM query to complete,
before scanning continues without the DKIM result.
Default: 5

[*rules2xsbody_enabled*]
Boolean.  Enable the Rule2XSBody plugin.
Compile ruleset to native code with sa-compile.
Requires re2c and gcc packages (not managed in this module)


=== Examples

 See tests folder.

=== Authors

Scott Barr <gsbarr@gmail.com>

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `spamassassin` class:

* [`sa_update`](#-spamassassin--sa_update)
* [`run_execs_as_user`](#-spamassassin--run_execs_as_user)
* [`package_name`](#-spamassassin--package_name)
* [`service_enabled`](#-spamassassin--service_enabled)
* [`service_name`](#-spamassassin--service_name)
* [`notify_service_name`](#-spamassassin--notify_service_name)
* [`spamd_max_children`](#-spamassassin--spamd_max_children)
* [`spamd_min_children`](#-spamassassin--spamd_min_children)
* [`spamd_listen_address`](#-spamassassin--spamd_listen_address)
* [`spamd_allowed_ips`](#-spamassassin--spamd_allowed_ips)
* [`spamd_username`](#-spamassassin--spamd_username)
* [`spamd_groupname`](#-spamassassin--spamd_groupname)
* [`spamd_nouserconfig`](#-spamassassin--spamd_nouserconfig)
* [`spamd_allowtell`](#-spamassassin--spamd_allowtell)
* [`spamd_sql_config`](#-spamassassin--spamd_sql_config)
* [`spamd_syslog_facility`](#-spamassassin--spamd_syslog_facility)
* [`configdir`](#-spamassassin--configdir)
* [`spamd_options_file`](#-spamassassin--spamd_options_file)
* [`spamd_options_var`](#-spamassassin--spamd_options_var)
* [`spamd_defaults`](#-spamassassin--spamd_defaults)
* [`sa_update_file`](#-spamassassin--sa_update_file)
* [`required_score`](#-spamassassin--required_score)
* [`score_tests`](#-spamassassin--score_tests)
* [`whitelist_from`](#-spamassassin--whitelist_from)
* [`whitelist_from_rcvd`](#-spamassassin--whitelist_from_rcvd)
* [`whitelist_to`](#-spamassassin--whitelist_to)
* [`blacklist_from`](#-spamassassin--blacklist_from)
* [`blacklist_to`](#-spamassassin--blacklist_to)
* [`rewrite_header_subject`](#-spamassassin--rewrite_header_subject)
* [`rewrite_header_from`](#-spamassassin--rewrite_header_from)
* [`rewrite_header_to`](#-spamassassin--rewrite_header_to)
* [`report_safe`](#-spamassassin--report_safe)
* [`add_header_spam`](#-spamassassin--add_header_spam)
* [`add_header_ham`](#-spamassassin--add_header_ham)
* [`add_header_all`](#-spamassassin--add_header_all)
* [`remove_header_spam`](#-spamassassin--remove_header_spam)
* [`remove_header_ham`](#-spamassassin--remove_header_ham)
* [`remove_header_all`](#-spamassassin--remove_header_all)
* [`clear_trusted_networks`](#-spamassassin--clear_trusted_networks)
* [`trusted_networks`](#-spamassassin--trusted_networks)
* [`clear_internal_networks`](#-spamassassin--clear_internal_networks)
* [`internal_networks`](#-spamassassin--internal_networks)
* [`skip_rbl_checks`](#-spamassassin--skip_rbl_checks)
* [`dns_available`](#-spamassassin--dns_available)
* [`uridnsbl_skip_domain`](#-spamassassin--uridnsbl_skip_domain)
* [`uridnsbl`](#-spamassassin--uridnsbl)
* [`urirhsbl`](#-spamassassin--urirhsbl)
* [`urirhssub`](#-spamassassin--urirhssub)
* [`bayes_enabled`](#-spamassassin--bayes_enabled)
* [`bayes_use_hapaxes`](#-spamassassin--bayes_use_hapaxes)
* [`bayes_auto_learn`](#-spamassassin--bayes_auto_learn)
* [`bayes_ignore_header`](#-spamassassin--bayes_ignore_header)
* [`bayes_auto_expire`](#-spamassassin--bayes_auto_expire)
* [`bayes_sql_enabled`](#-spamassassin--bayes_sql_enabled)
* [`bayes_sql_dsn`](#-spamassassin--bayes_sql_dsn)
* [`bayes_sql_username`](#-spamassassin--bayes_sql_username)
* [`bayes_sql_password`](#-spamassassin--bayes_sql_password)
* [`bayes_sql_override_username`](#-spamassassin--bayes_sql_override_username)
* [`bayes_store_module`](#-spamassassin--bayes_store_module)
* [`bayes_path`](#-spamassassin--bayes_path)
* [`bayes_file_mode`](#-spamassassin--bayes_file_mode)
* [`bayes_auto_learn_threshold_nonspam`](#-spamassassin--bayes_auto_learn_threshold_nonspam)
* [`bayes_auto_learn_threshold_spam`](#-spamassassin--bayes_auto_learn_threshold_spam)
* [`user_scores_dsn`](#-spamassassin--user_scores_dsn)
* [`user_scores_sql_username`](#-spamassassin--user_scores_sql_username)
* [`user_scores_sql_password`](#-spamassassin--user_scores_sql_password)
* [`user_scores_sql_custom_query`](#-spamassassin--user_scores_sql_custom_query)
* [`dcc_enabled`](#-spamassassin--dcc_enabled)
* [`dcc_timeout`](#-spamassassin--dcc_timeout)
* [`dcc_body_max`](#-spamassassin--dcc_body_max)
* [`dcc_fuz1_max`](#-spamassassin--dcc_fuz1_max)
* [`dcc_fuz2_max`](#-spamassassin--dcc_fuz2_max)
* [`pyzor_enabled`](#-spamassassin--pyzor_enabled)
* [`pyzor_timeout`](#-spamassassin--pyzor_timeout)
* [`pyzor_max`](#-spamassassin--pyzor_max)
* [`pyzor_options`](#-spamassassin--pyzor_options)
* [`pyzor_path`](#-spamassassin--pyzor_path)
* [`pyzor_home`](#-spamassassin--pyzor_home)
* [`razor_enabled`](#-spamassassin--razor_enabled)
* [`razor_timeout`](#-spamassassin--razor_timeout)
* [`razor_home`](#-spamassassin--razor_home)
* [`spamcop_enabled`](#-spamassassin--spamcop_enabled)
* [`spamcop_from_address`](#-spamassassin--spamcop_from_address)
* [`spamcop_to_address`](#-spamassassin--spamcop_to_address)
* [`spamcop_max_report_size`](#-spamassassin--spamcop_max_report_size)
* [`awl_enabled`](#-spamassassin--awl_enabled)
* [`awl_sql_enabled`](#-spamassassin--awl_sql_enabled)
* [`awl_dsn`](#-spamassassin--awl_dsn)
* [`awl_sql_username`](#-spamassassin--awl_sql_username)
* [`awl_sql_password`](#-spamassassin--awl_sql_password)
* [`awl_sql_override_username`](#-spamassassin--awl_sql_override_username)
* [`auto_whitelist_path`](#-spamassassin--auto_whitelist_path)
* [`auto_whitelist_file_mode`](#-spamassassin--auto_whitelist_file_mode)
* [`textcat_enabled`](#-spamassassin--textcat_enabled)
* [`ok_languages`](#-spamassassin--ok_languages)
* [`ok_locales`](#-spamassassin--ok_locales)
* [`normalize_charset`](#-spamassassin--normalize_charset)
* [`shortcircuit_enabled`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_enabled)
* [`shortcircuit_user_in_whitelist`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_whitelist)
* [`shortcircuit_user_in_def_whitelist`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_def_whitelist)
* [`shortcircuit_user_in_all_spam_to`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_all_spam_to)
* [`shortcircuit_subject_in_whitelist`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_subject_in_whitelist)
* [`shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist)
* [`shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist_to`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist_to)
* [`shortcircuit_subject_in_blacklist`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_subject_in_blacklist)
* [`shortcircuit_all_trusted`](#-spamassassin--shortcircuit_all_trusted)
* [`dkim_enabled`](#-spamassassin--dkim_enabled)
* [`dkim_timeout`](#-spamassassin--dkim_timeout)
* [`rules2xsbody_enabled`](#-spamassassin--rules2xsbody_enabled)
* [`custom_rules`](#-spamassassin--custom_rules)
* [`custom_config`](#-spamassassin--custom_config)

##### <a name="-spamassassin--sa_update"></a>`sa_update`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--run_execs_as_user"></a>`run_execs_as_user`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::package_name`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--service_enabled"></a>`service_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::service_name`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--notify_service_name"></a>`notify_service_name`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_max_children"></a>`spamd_max_children`

Data type: `Integer[1]`



Default value: `5`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_min_children"></a>`spamd_min_children`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_listen_address"></a>`spamd_listen_address`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::Host]`



Default value: `['localhost']`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_allowed_ips"></a>`spamd_allowed_ips`

Data type: `Array[String]`



Default value: `['127.0.0.1/32','[::1]/8']`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_username"></a>`spamd_username`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_groupname"></a>`spamd_groupname`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_nouserconfig"></a>`spamd_nouserconfig`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_allowtell"></a>`spamd_allowtell`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_sql_config"></a>`spamd_sql_config`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_syslog_facility"></a>`spamd_syslog_facility`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--configdir"></a>`configdir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::configdir`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_options_file"></a>`spamd_options_file`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::spamd_options_file`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_options_var"></a>`spamd_options_var`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::spamd_options_var`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamd_defaults"></a>`spamd_defaults`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::spamd_defaults`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--sa_update_file"></a>`sa_update_file`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::sa_update_file`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--required_score"></a>`required_score`

Data type: `Numeric`



Default value: `5`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--score_tests"></a>`score_tests`

Data type: `Hash`



Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--whitelist_from"></a>`whitelist_from`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--whitelist_from_rcvd"></a>`whitelist_from_rcvd`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--whitelist_to"></a>`whitelist_to`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--blacklist_from"></a>`blacklist_from`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--blacklist_to"></a>`blacklist_to`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--rewrite_header_subject"></a>`rewrite_header_subject`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--rewrite_header_from"></a>`rewrite_header_from`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--rewrite_header_to"></a>`rewrite_header_to`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--report_safe"></a>`report_safe`

Data type: `Integer[0,2]`



Default value: `0`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--add_header_spam"></a>`add_header_spam`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--add_header_ham"></a>`add_header_ham`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--add_header_all"></a>`add_header_all`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--remove_header_spam"></a>`remove_header_spam`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--remove_header_ham"></a>`remove_header_ham`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--remove_header_all"></a>`remove_header_all`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--clear_trusted_networks"></a>`clear_trusted_networks`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--trusted_networks"></a>`trusted_networks`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--clear_internal_networks"></a>`clear_internal_networks`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--internal_networks"></a>`internal_networks`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--skip_rbl_checks"></a>`skip_rbl_checks`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dns_available"></a>`dns_available`

Data type: `Pattern[/^(test|yes|no)$/]`



Default value: `'yes'`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--uridnsbl_skip_domain"></a>`uridnsbl_skip_domain`

Data type: `Array[String]`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--uridnsbl"></a>`uridnsbl`

Data type: `Hash[String, Array[String,2,2]]`



Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--urirhsbl"></a>`urirhsbl`

Data type: `Hash[String, Array[String,2,2]]`



Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--urirhssub"></a>`urirhssub`

Data type: `Hash[String, Array[String,3,3]]`



Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_enabled"></a>`bayes_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_use_hapaxes"></a>`bayes_use_hapaxes`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_auto_learn"></a>`bayes_auto_learn`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_ignore_header"></a>`bayes_ignore_header`

Data type: `Array`



Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_auto_expire"></a>`bayes_auto_expire`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_sql_enabled"></a>`bayes_sql_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_sql_dsn"></a>`bayes_sql_dsn`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'DBI:mysql:spamassassin'`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_sql_username"></a>`bayes_sql_username`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_sql_password"></a>`bayes_sql_password`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_sql_override_username"></a>`bayes_sql_override_username`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_store_module"></a>`bayes_store_module`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'Mail::SpamAssassin::BayesStore::SQL'`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_path"></a>`bayes_path`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_file_mode"></a>`bayes_file_mode`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_auto_learn_threshold_nonspam"></a>`bayes_auto_learn_threshold_nonspam`

Data type: `Optional[Float]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--bayes_auto_learn_threshold_spam"></a>`bayes_auto_learn_threshold_spam`

Data type: `Optional[Float]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--user_scores_dsn"></a>`user_scores_dsn`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--user_scores_sql_username"></a>`user_scores_sql_username`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--user_scores_sql_password"></a>`user_scores_sql_password`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--user_scores_sql_custom_query"></a>`user_scores_sql_custom_query`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dcc_enabled"></a>`dcc_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dcc_timeout"></a>`dcc_timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dcc_body_max"></a>`dcc_body_max`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dcc_fuz1_max"></a>`dcc_fuz1_max`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dcc_fuz2_max"></a>`dcc_fuz2_max`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--pyzor_enabled"></a>`pyzor_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--pyzor_timeout"></a>`pyzor_timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Numeric]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--pyzor_max"></a>`pyzor_max`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--pyzor_options"></a>`pyzor_options`

Data type: `Optional[Pattern[/[0-9A-Za-z ,._\/-]\+/]]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--pyzor_path"></a>`pyzor_path`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--pyzor_home"></a>`pyzor_home`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::pyzor_home`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--razor_enabled"></a>`razor_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--razor_timeout"></a>`razor_timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--razor_home"></a>`razor_home`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`



Default value: `$spamassassin::params::razor_home`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamcop_enabled"></a>`spamcop_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamcop_from_address"></a>`spamcop_from_address`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamcop_to_address"></a>`spamcop_to_address`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--spamcop_max_report_size"></a>`spamcop_max_report_size`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--awl_enabled"></a>`awl_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--awl_sql_enabled"></a>`awl_sql_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--awl_dsn"></a>`awl_dsn`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'DBI:mysql:spamassassin'`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--awl_sql_username"></a>`awl_sql_username`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--awl_sql_password"></a>`awl_sql_password`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--awl_sql_override_username"></a>`awl_sql_override_username`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--auto_whitelist_path"></a>`auto_whitelist_path`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--auto_whitelist_file_mode"></a>`auto_whitelist_file_mode`

Data type: `Optional[String]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--textcat_enabled"></a>`textcat_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--ok_languages"></a>`ok_languages`

Data type: `Array[String]`



Default value: `['all']`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--ok_locales"></a>`ok_locales`

Data type: `Array[String]`



Default value: `['all']`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--normalize_charset"></a>`normalize_charset`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_enabled"></a>`shortcircuit_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_whitelist"></a>`shortcircuit_user_in_whitelist`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_def_whitelist"></a>`shortcircuit_user_in_def_whitelist`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_all_spam_to"></a>`shortcircuit_user_in_all_spam_to`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_subject_in_whitelist"></a>`shortcircuit_subject_in_whitelist`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist"></a>`shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist_to"></a>`shortcircuit_user_in_blacklist_to`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_subject_in_blacklist"></a>`shortcircuit_subject_in_blacklist`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--shortcircuit_all_trusted"></a>`shortcircuit_all_trusted`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['ham','spam','on','off']]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dkim_enabled"></a>`dkim_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--dkim_timeout"></a>`dkim_timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`



Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--rules2xsbody_enabled"></a>`rules2xsbody_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`



Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--custom_rules"></a>`custom_rules`

Data type: `Hash`



Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-spamassassin--custom_config"></a>`custom_config`

Data type: `Array[String]`



Default value: `[]`

### <a name="spamassassin--config"></a>`spamassassin::config`

== Class: spamassassin::config

Configure spamassassin and related software.

This class should not be used directly. Use the spamassassin class and its
parameters instead.

### <a name="spamassassin--install"></a>`spamassassin::install`

== Class: spamassassin::install

Install packages for spamassassin and related software.

This class should not be used directly. Use the spamassassin class and its
parameters instead.

### <a name="spamassassin--params"></a>`spamassassin::params`

== Class: spamassassin::params

Default parameter values for class spamassassin

TODO: This should be replaced by data-in-module with hiera 5

### <a name="spamassassin--service"></a>`spamassassin::service`

== Class: spamassassin::service

Setup spamassassin service.

This class should not be used directly. Use the spamassassin class and its
parameters instead.

